# Signaling Dimension

The *signaling dimension* of a channel ``\mathbf{P}\in\mathcal{P}^{n \to n'}``
is the smallest integer ``d`` such that ``\mathbf{P} \in \mathcal{C}_d^{n \to n'}``.

Since ``\mathcal{C}_d^{n \to n'}`` is the set of classical channels using ``d``-dit
communication and shared randomness, the signaling dimension of a channel specifies
the minimal amount of classical communication needed to simulate channel ``\mathbf{P}``.
The signaling dimension is a device-independent characteristic of a channel because
it can be computed from the channel correlations alone.
This means that the signaling dimension can be used to quantify the performance of
classical and quantum channels alike.
Hence, the signaling dimension yields a

Let ``\mathcal{Q}_d^{N \to n'}`` denote the set of signaling correlations over an
ideal quantum channel on a ``d``-dimensional Hilbert space.
It was recently proven that ``\mathcal{Q}_d^{N \to n'} \subset \mathcal{C}_d^{n \to n'}`` [^Frenkel2015].
That is, one-shot classical communication using ``d`` messages and shared randomness
can exactly simulate the correlations generated by ideal quantum communication over
a ``d``-dimensional Hilbert space.

The signaling dimension is important because it provides
a quantitative metric comparing quantum and classical signaling systems, the classical simulation cost.
A classical simulation of a quantum system reproduces the signaling correlations of that system,
hence, the quantum system and its classical simulation are operationally equivalent.
Since classical resources are heavily used in industry, there is well-defined monetary
value that can be placed on the use of classical resorces.
Therefore, the classical simulation cost can help justify (or reject) the use of quantum technology
for a particular task.
Although, it should be noted that certain quantum properties such as no-cloning
are not represented in the signaling correlations.
These properties cannot be reproduced classically and can be deemed invaluable
for certain tasks such as private key distribution.

Computing the signaling dimension of communication channels requires a test to verify
the inclusion (or exclusion) of a channel ``\mathbf{P}`` in ``\mathcal{C}_d^{n \to n'}``.
Within the framework of Bell scenarios, linear Bell inequalities serve as the bounds of
classical correlations and therefore, provide a convenient test for inclusion within
the signaling ``\mathcal{C}_d^{n \to n'}``.
The [`BellScenario.LocalPolytope`](https://chitambarlab.github.io/BellScenario.jl/stable/LocalPolytope/overview/#BellScenario.LocalPolytope)
module provides tools for computing the bounds of the signaling polytope.
However, these computation challenging and rapidly become infeasible.
The polytope computations will be discussed in detail in the [Signaling Polytope: Overview](@ref) section.

To bypass the challenges of polytope computations, lower and upper bounds can efficiently be
placed on the signaling dimension.
These device-independent tests certify the signaling dimension of channel and are discussed in more detail
in the [Certifying Signaling Dimension](@ref) section.

### References

[^Frenkel2015]:
    Frenkel, Péter E., and Mihály Weiner. "Classical information storage in an n-level quantum system." Communications in Mathematical Physics 340.2 (2015): 563-574.
